Answers of Assignment 2 (22 May) 
Operator and Loops

Ans1 : They are used when a condition comprises more than one boolean expression. For instance  if we want to 
Print a number only if it is greater than 2 and less than 5 then we will use conditional operators to combine the 2 expressions. We have 3 types of conditional operators - logical-and  logical-or and ternary operators. 


Logical-and operator (&&)

It is used when we want the condition to be true if both the conditions are true. 

Logical-or operator (||)

This operator is used when we are satisfied as long as any one of the boolean expressions is evaluated as true

Ternary operator (?:)

It is a smallest version for the if-else statement. If the condition is true then the statement - 1 is executed else the 
statement - 2 is executed. 


Ans 2 : These are the three types of operators in java - 
. Unary Operator
. Binary Operator
. Ternary Operator

Ans3 :  Switch statement

The switch case in java is used to select one of many code blocks for execution.


Break keyword: As java Reaches a break keyword the control breaks out of the switch block. The execution of 
code stops on encountering this keyword and the case testing inside the block ends as the match is found. A lot of execution time can be saved because it ignores  the rest of the code's execution when there is a break. 

Default keyword : The keyword is used to specify the code executed when the expression does not match any 
test case.


The switch case in Java works like an if-else ladder i.e. multiple conditions can be checked at once. Switch is provided with an expression that can be a constant or literal expression that can be evaluated. The value of the  expression is matched with each test case till a match is found. If there is no match the default keyword if 
specified- the associated code executes. Otherwise the code specified for the matched test case is executed.
Example: 
int month = 4;

    	switch (month) {

      	case 1:

        		System.out.println("January");

       	 	break;

      	case 2:

        		System.out.println("February");

        		break;

      	case 3:

        		System.out.println("March");

        		break;

      	case 4:

        		System.out.println("April");

       		 break;

      	case 5:

        		System.out.println("May");

        		break;

      	case 6:

        		System.out.println("June");

       	 	break;

     	default: System.out.println("Invalid");

Output: April

Ans 4: The two priority levels are :
High Priority: * / %
Low Priority: + - 

Ans 5: A set of rules considered valid if certain conditions are met. They start with a hypothesis and end with a conclusion and are sometimes referred to as if-else statements
 Conditionals are used to help you to make a decision based on certain conditions. These conditions are specified by a set of conditional statements having boolean expressions which are evaluated to a boolean value of true or false.

Ans 6: if (condition) {
  // block of code to be executed if the condition is true
} else {
  // block of code to be executed if the condition is false
}


Ans 7: The three iterative statements are -
For loop
While loop
Do-while loop

Ans 8: 


  For loop
Do - while loop
Syntax: For(initialization; condition;updating), { . Statements; }
Syntax: Do { . Statements; } While(condition);
	It is known as entry controlled loop
	It is known as exit controlled loop
If the condition is not true first time than control will never enter in a loop
Even if the condition is not true for the first time the control will enter in a loop.
For loop is use when we know the number of iterations means where the loop will terminate
Do while loop is use when we don't know the number of iterations means where the loop will terminate

 
Ans 9: public class For_Loop
{
    public static void main(String[] args)
    {
        for(int i = 1; i <= 10; i++)
        {
            System.out.println(i);
        }
    }
}





